I found some datasets including the texts and their emotions (such as joy, angry, etc.) and did some preprocessing. I used some NLP models (Bert based models such as Deberta, Roberta, Bart) to check the entailment of the text and emotions and find the emotion for each text that has highest entailment probability regarding relevance to the text as predicted emotion (zero shot classification). I also used different description of emotions by adding templates at the beginning of emotion as the representation of emotion which is called prompt and compared the results of using different prompts and using only emotion (Regarding Macro average F1 for the whole dataset and emotion labels). I also analyzed the results to understand how adding templates affects emotion classification by comparing the average of attention scores of tokens of the sentence (concatenation of main sentence and prompts) regarding their relevance to the emotions for the cases that using prompt colud lead to improvements to them. I compared my results including the improved cases and not improved cases. I saw that there are some specific tokens related to the emotion in improved ones. Sometimes, the sentences have ambiguous emotions, so the predicted emotion is different from the true emotion when using prompts of emotions. I also combined the results of prompts by averaging the entailment probabilities that are resulted from using different prompts and selected the emotion that has the highest average of the entailment probabilities as the predicted label. We can see that the ensemble method has the performance equal to the best individual prompt result. In addition, I used synonyms of emotions by getting average of entailment probabilities of synonyms of emotions and setting the emotion with highest average of entailment probabilities as predicted emotion. We saw that it could lead to little improvement for Isear dataset. I also used synonyms of emotions by checking the maximum of entailment probabilities of synonyms of emotion and setting it as entailment probability of emotion and setting the emotion that has highest entailment probability as the predicted emotion. It could only lead to little improvement for one of the prompts for the first dataset.
